"There are only two kinds of languages: the ones people complain about and the ones nobody uses" Bjarne Stroustrup

Note that this portfolio is meant to expand upon my LinkedIn and resume, so if you are
looking for a more consise view of my experience check out those two resources first

My first experience in programming was on the FRC team 226 at Troy High School
I gained experience programming in Java and utilizing the WPILib library to enable
robot control. The robot is built from the ground up in 4 months and had induvidual
teams in design, manufacturing and programming. As a result I learned how to communicate 
with people from different aspects of a manufacturing process with varying levels of 
understanding of what I do as a programmer. As my experience grew I specialized in PID
control theory, which was crucial for precise movement in the autonomous mode and macros.

Stemming from my experience on an FRC team, I ofered a mentorship position on an FTC team,
which is a middle school robotics team participating in a simpler version of FRC. This 
was my first experience in a montor/teacher role, which will become a trend later on in my
life. I passed my knowledge in programming and overal robot design to the students and
coaches on this team, and helped them make their way to state competition as a rookie team

Alongside my technical experiences during high school, I was participating in Taekwondo
and earned my first degree black belt after 3 years of rigorous training. Soon after I 
took an oppertunity to be an assistant instructor which entails leading classes and teaching
students. I gained experience in control of my mind and body as a martial artist, as well 
as being a flexible teacher who can accommodate people at different skill levels, ages and 
challenges in their training.

Right after my high school graduation and the start of the COVID-19 pandemic I began my
first internship at DM3D Technologies as a software engineer. As my first experience in a 
professional environment I gained plenty of experience in maintaining relations and 
effective communication in the context of project specifications, timelines and expectations.
My technical experience involved the use of software to manage the operations and data from
Direct-Metal-Deposition 3D printers. Doing so involved the use of Visual Basic, LabView for
visual interfaces and Microsoft SQL for data management and storage. One project involved 
interacting with legacy codebases to add functionality. The projects included creating a
post production part analysis tool with a visual feed, software and control panel for a 
DAQ, and a data logger and report generation tool. These software solutions greatly
increased improved productivity when testing the DMD printers, and created fundamental tools
for newer printers. Every project also involved the appending or creation of a user manual,
which required detailed descriptions of the tools itself, use cases, limitations and
expandability.

After returning to in-person learning in the fall of 2021, I was enclined to join a team
similar to my high school FRC team and further apply my skills in programming. I found this
in the Michigan State University Solar Car Team, where in a similar fashion to FRC a car
is developed for competitions. I was given a more hands on experience, as the car is built
from the ground up with commercial parts, rather than the tailored FRC development proccess.
All of my programming is done through Arduino Dues, which are used to manage numerious
components of the car ranging from power distribution, motor control and exterior lighting.
There are numerous boards and components such as an Orion 2 Battery Management System which
communicate critical information using CAN communication protocol, which is extensively 
used in the automotive world. Similar to FRC, the team consists of various subteams which I
had to communicate with to program the Arduinos to specification. In the future I plan to
modernize the team website with some more creative aspects.

After my first semester on campus I had the oppertunity to work as a Teaching Assistant for 
CSE 232 after excelling in the class as a student. 232 is an introductory programming class 
in C++, and the teaching assistants are responsible for offering office hours for students 
to get help with their code, instructing lab sections and grading projects. My prior 
experiences in teaching, communication and software engineering helped me fulfil this role 
perfectly and offer students a productive learning environment for this class. 

I expect to maintain both my position on the Solar Car Team and as a TA during my semesters
until I graduate in December 2023.

My most recent experience as been with Magna International as a Data Analyst Intern in the
R&D team. My experience in software engineering and exposure the the automotive industry
through MSU Solar has helped me learn difficult concepts in data science in my time here.
I have explored concepts such as Edge Machine Learning for a proof-of-concepts for TinyML
and various anomoly detection algorithms, both of which are for the manufacturing environment.
The technologies I have used include Python, Numpy, Pandas, Tensorflow (Lite), Edge Impulse,
statistical methods such as ReLU, FOMO, Autoencoders, k-NN, SVM and traditional statistical 
tools like Z-scores. This internship definately placed me out of my comfort zone of pure
software engineering, but using the internet and knowledge of my mentors/peers I was able
to learn everything required to turn over software and machine learning models to complete
the projects given to me.

A lot of my experience in software engineering comes from projects which are private by 
nature and aren't visible on my GitHub. If any verification is needed for these projects,
please feel free to contact me.